# Artificial Intelligence for Bioinformatics

Dex data explorer is a powerful tool for data science. Opik helps you build, test, and optimize generative AI application. BioSimulations is a platform for sharing and running modeling studies. Galaxy is a open-source system for analyzing data, authoring workflows, training and education. cz-benchmarks is a package for standardized evaluation and comparison of machine learning models. Rbio is a conversational large language model designed to perform biological reasoning. ESM3 is a frontier generative model for biology, able to jointly reason across three fundamental biological properties of proteins: sequence, structure, and function. Aliro is an easy-to-use data science assistant. It allows researchers without machine learning or coding expertise to run supervised machine learning analysis through a clean web interface. Apache Zeppelin Web-based notebook that enables data-driven, interactive data analytics. Apache Doris is a database for real-time analytics and search. BioJava is an open-source project dedicated to providing a Java library for processing biological data. Jenetics is a Genetic Algorithm, Evolutionary Algorithm, Grammatical Evolution, Genetic Programming, and Multi-objective Optimization library. Spark RAPIDS plugin accelerate Apache Spark. ADAM is a genomics analysis platform with specialized file formats built using Apache Avro, Apache Spark and Apache Parquet. Sparkling Water provides H2O functionality inside Spark cluster. Enso Analytics is a workflow-based data preparation platform designed for teams. Pulsar is a distributed pub-sub messaging platform. Agrona provides a library of data structures and utility methods. Datumbox is an open-source Machine Learning framework. Dash is the most downloaded, trusted Python framework for building ML & data science web apps. DataMelt can be used with several scripting languages for the Java platform Jython, Groovy, JRuby and BeanShell. All scripting languages use common DataMelt JAVA API.

The directory structure includes a specific folder for each phase of development and engineering programs:

- __MBSE__: The root folder Arcadia (ARChitecture Analysis and Design Integrated Approach) is a method of tools dedicated to systems engineering and architecture, supported by the Capella modeling tool.    
  - __CAD__: For computer-aided design.
  - __CAM__: Dedicated to the part manufacturing and assembly process.
  - __CAS__: For simulation of end-to-end functionality and performance analysis.

